=== FILE: Ch02_Overview of UML Notation.pptx ===

Total slides: 15


--- Slide 1 ---
Layout: Title Slide
Software Design (swD392)
Ch02 – Overview of THE uml notation

--- Slide 2 ---
Layout: Title and Content
UML Diagrams

--- Slide 3 ---
Layout: Title and Content
Use Case Diagrams
An actor initiates a use case.
A use case defines a sequence of interactions between the actor and the system.

--- Slide 4 ---
Layout: Title and Content
Classes & Objects
To distinguish between a class (the type) and an object (an instance of the type), an object name is shown underlined.
An object can be depicted in full with the object name separated by a colon from the class name

--- Slide 5 ---
Layout: Title and Content
Class DiagramsRelationship Hierarchies
An association is a static, structural relationship between two or more classes.The multiplicity of an association specifies how many instances of one class     may relate to a single instance of another classA generalization/specialization hierarchy is an inheritance relationship Aggregation and composition hierarchies are whole/part relationships

--- Slide 6 ---
Layout: Title and Content
Class DiagramsVisibility
Public visibility, denoted with a + symbol, means that the element is visible from outside the class.
Private visibility, denoted with a – symbol, means that the element is visible only from within the class that defines it and is thus hidden from other classes.
Protected visibility, denoted with a # symbol, means that the element is visible from within the class that defines it and within all subclasses of the class.

--- Slide 7 ---
Layout: Title and Content
Interaction DiagramsCommunication Diagram
UML has two main kinds of interaction diagrams, which depict how objects interact: the communication diagram and the sequence diagram
Communication Diagram

--- Slide 8 ---
Layout: Title and Content
Interaction DiagramsSequence Diagram
Sequence Diagram

--- Slide 9 ---
Layout: Title and Content
State Machine Diagrams

--- Slide 10 ---
Layout: Title and Content
Package Diagrams

--- Slide 11 ---
Layout: Title and Content
Concurrent Communication Diagrams

--- Slide 12 ---
Layout: Title and Content
Deployment Diagrams

--- Slide 13 ---
Layout: Title and Content
UML Extension Mechanisms 1/2
UML provides three mechanisms to allow the language to be extended (Booch, Rumbaugh, and Jacobson 2005; Rumbaugh, Booch, and Jacobson 2005)
A tagged value extends the properties of a UML building block, thereby adding new information. A tagged value is enclosed in braces in the form {tag = value}. Commas separate additional tagged values
A constraint specifies a condition that must be true. In UML, a constraint is an extension of the semantics of a UML element to allow the addition of new rules or modifications to existing rules

--- Slide 14 ---
Layout: Title and Content
UML Extension Mechanisms 2/2
A stereotype defines a new building block that is derived from an existing UML modeling element but tailored to the modeler’s problem. Stereotypes are indicated by guillemets (« »)

--- Slide 15 ---
Layout: Title Only